>> Jason: This is actually set up so
that if the browser does
not support variable fonts,
then it won't load it, and
it will load Fira instead.
And then it will put up this message.
I should be able to pull this page
up in the normal version of Firefox.
If I quit out of that,
I forced this version of Firefox to not
show the variable fonts.
>> Jason: Let
me see if I have that,
>> Jason: There we
go.
>> Jason: And
this is because this demo is meant for
monotype to show everybody.
There's still plenty of people that might
have a browser that doesn't support it.
They still get the essay,
they can still read it.
The typography is still, it's okay,
it's not as,
maybe as refined as I'd like it to be.
But, they can still get the point and they
can still take something away from this.
And they get that message
that let's them know
this is why you're seeing it this way.
So that's set up.
And these components so
here's what it looks like add supports
forge variation settings normal.
Meaning, if that's true
execute the CSS in between.
So in this case, I'm using
the make sure nobody sees it ever
CSS that Sets of display, the visibility,
everything to get it out of the way so
it's totally removed
from the document flow.
Using not,
meaning it negates the condition.
So if it does not support font
variation settings, I remove
my example ampersand animation, and then I
add in, I display my note support message.
So, that way I can kind of
tie these things together.
And if the test fails,
they're gonna get the message
because I'm not hiding it based on font
variation settings being supported.
So this is another one of those
examples of trying to decide where you
need to determine the level of support,
and what happens when things fail.
So at supports is pretty well supported
but it's not universally supported, and
if it's not supported it's certainly
not gonna support variable fonts.
So, where is that condition of failure?
I wanted to make sure that if all of this
stuff falls apart, there still gonna get
some text on the screen and they're gonna
get the message that tells them, why?
Why is this not working?
So, now, it's kind of interesting
example to one place I haven't
been able to deal with this effectively
yet is in Safari 9 in earlier.
Loading the variable font will crash
the browsers straight out, and
I haven't quite figured out
how to trap for that yet.
If handled most of the other scenarios
that are likely to come up to make sure
that this sample page functions to get
the content across, and then hopefully,
if the browser supports it with
the design that we'll make it sing.
>> Jason: Let's see if I have,
up at the top here.
There we go.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question.
>> Jason: Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: If you have at supports, and
your condition is, if that doesn't load,
if you have the supports one
within that conditional,
why do you have to also put it in
the condition that it did load?
What does that do for you?
>> Jason: There were two things that I
wanted to change.
If it was supported, I wanted to make sure
the warning message is
nowhere to be found.
If it's not supported I want
to make the example go away.
So, I really wanted to make sure I was
dealing with those conditions separately,
so that I can not sort of the minimum
amount of code rewriting to say,
if the condition is true.
Cuz I'm doing the same thing up here,
where I'm only loading Fira,
Sans if they don't support variable fonts.
And so if that test fails,
okay, load this, and
that's the CSS that I'm gonna use.
And then down below, right down here,
>> Jason: I
apologize if this is
giving anybody vertigo.
So it's two different elements
that I want it to act on, and
I want it to do different things to them.
And that's why I didn't, I only wanted to
move the support message
if this was true and
it does support variable fonts.
I wanted that one specifically,
because otherwise,
if everything fails including
the check for at support.
Then, I want them to see
that no support message.
That's why I wanted to have
that one there explicitly.
And then, if it succeeds in checking for
variable fonts not working,
then I wanna move the ampersand
animation out of the way.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jason: So-
>> Speaker 2: But why do you have to have
the no support message within,
if it's worked?
>> Jason: Well,
that's where I'm turning it off.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
[CROSSTALK] defult is.
>> Jason: Right,
the default is that it'll show up.
So, like in Firefox it just, it moves
the ampersand stuff out of the way and
it leaves the support
message where it should be.
>> Jason: I'm a little mixed, but
the reason I wanted to
separate those things was so
I could think about them, and
deal with them consistently.
So if it doesn't load, doesn't support it,
load the non variable font,
and do this thing over here.
My normal condition is if
there is a warning message,
if it does support the variable
fonts now remove that.
So it's really more of a mental thing for
me, but it's also what is the default?
And the default I want it to be
the warning message is present.
>> Jason: So with this combination,
now I went serve the inverse way and
I said up top that
I only wana to load Fira Sans
if it does not support
variable fonts because this
is a variable font demo.
That was the whole point.
I think that were you to think about
putting variable fonts into production
today.
I would go the opposite routes and
say, if supports is true
now load the variable fund, and then
scope all your font family assignments
in the similar manner at supports
font variation settings, normal.
Then replace your font family
declarations with the variable font, and
add in all the CSS that you want to
govern that type of graphic system.
So that was as soon as that test starts
passing everywhere it just works.
And eventually,
then you can rip out the other stuff.
But it's pretty safe for you to start
to put that in production today.
Because if you have it scoped that way,
it's only gonna pass in a browser
where it supports variables,
calculations at supports,
future detection, and variable fonts.
You can kinda get them all of those
things together if the variable font
test is true.